1. What is a computer system?
 A computer system is a collection of hardware, software, data, and people that work together to process information and perform tasks.

2. What are some of the parts of a computer system?
Hardwares:CPU, Memory, input/output devices
Software:system softwware like operating systems, application softward like word processors
Data:Infomation the computer processes
Users:The person who interacts with the system

3. What is the difference between a compiled language and an intepreted language?
- compiled language is when code is written in a higher level language (like c, c++, c#) then is compiled down into instructions that the machine can actually use (aka binary code)
- interperated language is when the code is run as is from a target machine by a different program without converting it into binary
(https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/compiler-design/difference-between-compiled-and-interpreted-language/)

4. Is C a compiled language?
yes

5. Who invented the C language?
 Dennis Ritchie at Bell Labs in the early 1970s.

6. How long has C been in use?
 C has been in use for over 50 years (since about 1972).

7. Is a compiler a translator?
A compiler is a translator. As it translates source code, A high level language, into machine code, which is a lower level language

8. Is an assembler a translator?
Yes, an assembler is a translator. As it converts assembly language into machine language or binary

9. What is the command to list out the contents of a directory on a mac terminal window?
The command is ls

10. What does the C function atof() do?
Converts strings to a floating point number

11. What are the bottom two layers of a computer system? Give a brief desciption of each.
- the digital logic is the lowest and is the actual hardware that all the operations of the computer run on (i.e. the circuitry, motherbords, gates, etc)
- the 2nd lowest one is the control layer and it uses the hardware and contains the microcode which runs on said hardware from the lowest level

12. What are the three steps of the Von Neumann Architecture?
Fetch:Retrieve an instruction from memory.
Decode:Interpret the instruction.
Execute:Carry out the instruction (e.g., math, data movement)

13. What is the purpose of an ALU?
The Arithmetic Logic Unit (ALU) performs mathematical operations (addition, subtraction) and logical operations (AND, OR, NOT).

14. What is a register?
it's a part in the CPU used for storing the adress of instructions

15. What is one difference between Application software and System software?
system is written for computers, application is written for people

16. Is the phrase cmp rdi, rsi machine language?
no it's assembly language

17. How many buses are included in the system bus?
3 (control, adress, data)

18. What is the decimal value of 10010111?
151

19. What is the decimal value of 11111111?
255

20. What is the largest unsigned integer value that will fit into 16 bits?
65,535
